README.md, before:

# Custom useVirtuoso Hook

## What: tiny react hook to batch render long lists, for smooth endless scroll

## Purpose 
- Reduces DOM node consumption, lowering memory usage and render work for the browser (only a slice is appended to the rendered list at any time)
- Great for learning virtualized rendering concepts(batching, preventing overlap of scheduling, cleanup)
- Smoother UX(particularly on lower-end devices) by avoiding costly paint of entire large lists on every render

## API 

```
function useVirtuoso<T>(
    items: T[], 
    batchLength? // default 6
    ) -> { 
        visible: T[], 
        loadMore: () => void, 
        fullyLoaded: boolean 
        }
```
>[!NOTE] 
>With react-virtuoso, increaseViewportBy controls overscan - the extra pixels rendered above/below the viewport. 
>It does not trigger loading itself; endReached triggers loadMore.


- items: your data set to render. This parameter can be an array of any type
- batchLength: optional parameter for how many items to reveal per batch
- loadMore: function that when called in the event you've scrolled to the bound set in 'increaseViewPortBy' 
schedules the next batch(won't overlap schedules)
- fullyLoaded: once this value is true, your full data set has been rendered

## Quick Start (with react-virtuoso) - Primary usage

#### In the terminal
- cd useVirtuoso
- install react-virtuoso: npm i react-virtuoso

#### Code for endless scroller
```
// React + TypeScript/TSX

import { Virtuoso, type FooterProps } from "react-virtuoso";
import { useVirtuoso } from "./hooks/useVirtuoso";

type Item = { id: number; title: string; description: string };
type Ctx  = { fullyLoaded: boolean };

function Loader({ context }: FooterProps<Ctx>) {
  return context?.fullyLoaded ? null : <div className="loader" />;
}

export default function EndlessScroll({ items }: { items: Item[] }) {
  const { visible, loadMore, fullyLoaded } = useVirtuoso(items, 10);

  return (
    <Virtuoso<Item, Ctx>
      style={{ height: 500 }}
      data={visible}
      endReached={loadMore}
      computeItemKey={(i, it) => it.id}
      increaseViewportBy={ 120 }
      components={{ Footer: Loader }}
      context={{ fullyLoaded }}
      itemContent={(index, item) => (
        <div className="card">
          <h3>{item.title}</h3>
          <p>{item.description}</p>
        </div>
      )}
    />
  );
}

```

## Basic Usage (no third-party library)

### useVirtuoso is library-agnostic. It just returns the visible items rendered, a loadMore trigger, and a fullyLoaded flag. You can wire it to any scroll trigger.

#### Example B - Simple scroll trigger
```
// React + TypeScript/TSX


const items = Array.from({ length: 80 }, (_, i) => `Item ${i + 1}`);

export default function Demo() {
  const { visible, loadMore, fullyLoaded } = useVirtuoso(items, 10);

  return (
    <div
      style={{ height: 420, overflow: "auto", border: "1px solid #444", padding: 8 }}
      onScroll={(e) => {
        const el = e.currentTarget;
        const nearBottom = el.scrollTop + el.clientHeight >= el.scrollHeight - 40;
        if (nearBottom) loadMore();
      }}
    >
      {visible.map((t, i) => (
        <div key={i} className="card">{t}</div>
      ))}
      {!fullyLoaded && <div className="loader" />}
    </div>
  );
}

```

#### Example C - IntersectionObserver (scroll math not needed)

```
// React + TypeScript/TSX

import { useRef, useEffect } from "react";

const items = Array.from({ length: 80 }, (_, i) => `Item ${i + 1}`);

export function DemoObserver() {
  const { visible, loadMore, fullyLoaded } = useVirtuoso(items, 10);
  const containerRef = useRef<HTMLDivElement | null>(null);
  const boundaryRef  = useRef<HTMLDivElement | null>(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    if(fullyLoaded) return; // early return when data set is fully rendered

    const boundary = boundaryRef.current;
    const root = containerRef.current;

    if (!root || !boundary) return;
    const observer = new IntersectionObserver(
      ([entry]) => entry.isIntersecting && loadMore(),
      { root, rootMargin: "120px" } // load more items a bit before the bottom
    );
    observer.observe(boundary);
    return () => observer.disconnect();
  }, [loadMore, fullyLoaded]);

  return (
    <div ref={containerRef} style={{ height: 420, overflow: "auto" }}>
      {visible.map((t, i) => <div key={i} className="card">{t}</div>)}
      {!fullyLoaded && <div ref={boundaryRef} style={{ height: 1 }} />}
    </div>
  );
}

```

Commit message:

return value 'visible' from custom hook explained in API section of README

README.md, after:

# Custom useVirtuoso Hook

## What: tiny react hook to batch render long lists, for smooth endless scroll

## Purpose 
- Reduces DOM node consumption, lowering memory usage and render work for the browser (only a slice is appended to the rendered list at any time)
- Great for learning virtualized rendering concepts(batching, preventing overlap of scheduling, cleanup)
- Smoother UX(particularly on lower-end devices) by avoiding costly paint of entire large lists on every render

## API 

```
function useVirtuoso<T>(
    items: T[], 
    batchLength? // default 6
    ) -> { 
        visible: T[], 
        loadMore: () => void, 
        fullyLoaded: boolean 
        }
```
>[!NOTE] 
>With react-virtuoso, increaseViewportBy controls overscan - the extra pixels rendered above/below the viewport. 
>It does not trigger loading itself; endReached triggers loadMore.


- items: your data set to render. This parameter can be an array of any type
- batchLength: optional parameter for how many items to reveal per batch
- visible: rendered elements from the data set passed to 'items'
- loadMore: function that when called in the event you've scrolled to the bound set in 'increaseViewPortBy' 
schedules the next batch(won't overlap schedules)
- fullyLoaded: once this value is true, your full data set has been rendered

## Quick Start (with react-virtuoso) - Primary usage

#### In the terminal
- cd useVirtuoso
- install react-virtuoso: npm i react-virtuoso

#### Code for endless scroller
```
// React + TypeScript/TSX

import { Virtuoso, type FooterProps } from "react-virtuoso";
import { useVirtuoso } from "./hooks/useVirtuoso";

type Item = { id: number; title: string; description: string };
type Ctx  = { fullyLoaded: boolean };

function Loader({ context }: FooterProps<Ctx>) {
  return context?.fullyLoaded ? null : <div className="loader" />;
}

export default function EndlessScroll({ items }: { items: Item[] }) {
  const { visible, loadMore, fullyLoaded } = useVirtuoso(items, 10);

  return (
    <Virtuoso<Item, Ctx>
      style={{ height: 500 }}
      data={visible}
      endReached={loadMore}
      computeItemKey={(i, it) => it.id}
      increaseViewportBy={ 120 }
      components={{ Footer: Loader }}
      context={{ fullyLoaded }}
      itemContent={(index, item) => (
        <div className="card">
          <h3>{item.title}</h3>
          <p>{item.description}</p>
        </div>
      )}
    />
  );
}

```

## Basic Usage (no third-party library)

### useVirtuoso is library-agnostic. It just returns the visible items rendered, a loadMore trigger, and a fullyLoaded flag. You can wire it to any scroll trigger.

#### Example B - Simple scroll trigger
```
// React + TypeScript/TSX


const items = Array.from({ length: 80 }, (_, i) => `Item ${i + 1}`);

export default function Demo() {
  const { visible, loadMore, fullyLoaded } = useVirtuoso(items, 10);

  return (
    <div
      style={{ height: 420, overflow: "auto", border: "1px solid #444", padding: 8 }}
      onScroll={(e) => {
        const el = e.currentTarget;
        const nearBottom = el.scrollTop + el.clientHeight >= el.scrollHeight - 40;
        if (nearBottom) loadMore();
      }}
    >
      {visible.map((t, i) => (
        <div key={i} className="card">{t}</div>
      ))}
      {!fullyLoaded && <div className="loader" />}
    </div>
  );
}

```

#### Example C - IntersectionObserver (scroll math not needed)

```
// React + TypeScript/TSX

import { useRef, useEffect } from "react";

const items = Array.from({ length: 80 }, (_, i) => `Item ${i + 1}`);

export function DemoObserver() {
  const { visible, loadMore, fullyLoaded } = useVirtuoso(items, 10);
  const containerRef = useRef<HTMLDivElement | null>(null);
  const boundaryRef  = useRef<HTMLDivElement | null>(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    if(fullyLoaded) return; // early return when data set is fully rendered

    const boundary = boundaryRef.current;
    const root = containerRef.current;

    if (!root || !boundary) return;
    const observer = new IntersectionObserver(
      ([entry]) => entry.isIntersecting && loadMore(),
      { root, rootMargin: "120px" } // load more items a bit before the bottom
    );
    observer.observe(boundary);
    return () => observer.disconnect();
  }, [loadMore, fullyLoaded]);

  return (
    <div ref={containerRef} style={{ height: 420, overflow: "auto" }}>
      {visible.map((t, i) => <div key={i} className="card">{t}</div>)}
      {!fullyLoaded && <div ref={boundaryRef} style={{ height: 1 }} />}
    </div>
  );
}

```
